README.md, before:

# ⏣ tscircuit - React for Circuits

[Docs](https://docs.tscircuit.com) &middot; [Website](https://tscircuit.com) &middot; [Twitter](https://x.com/tscircuit) &middot; [discord](https://tscircuit.com/community/join-redirect) &middot; [Quickstart](https://docs.tscircuit.com/quickstart) &middot; [Online Playground](https://tscircuit.com/playground)

[![NPM Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/tscircuit)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/tscircuit) [![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/tscircuit/tscircuit)](https://github.com/tscircuit/tscircuit)

Make electronics using Typescript, React and [AI](https://text-to-footprint.tscircuit.com).

```
npm install -g tscircuit
```

`tscircuit` is a library complemented by a registry, package manager, command line tool and AI electronic design suite that makes it easy to create, share, export and manufacture electronic circuits. It uses
[React Fiber](https://docs.pmnd.rs/react-three-fiber/getting-started/introduction) to render circuits into web pages.

```tsx
const Circuit = () => (
  <board width="50mm" height="50mm" center_x={0} center_y={0}>
    <MySubcomponent
      name="U1"
      center={[0, 0]}
      footprint="sot236"
    />
    <resistor
      x={2}
      y={-0.5}
      name="R1"
      resistance="10ohm"
      footprint="0805"
      pcb_x="4mm"
      pcb_y="-1mm"
    />
    <ground x={3} y={1} name="GND" />
    <trace path={[".U1 > .D0", ".R1 > .left"]} />
    <trace path={[".R1 > .right", ".GND > .gnd"]} />
  </board>
)
```

![Example Circuit Rendering](./docs/example_render.png)


https://github.com/tscircuit/tscircuit/assets/1910070/63610730-41e6-4a00-9748-e4c3691e5ca9


## Getting Started

You can do everything you need to do with `tscircuit` using the [`tsci`](https://github.com/tscircuit/cli) command line tool.

```bash
npm install -g tscircuit

tsci dev
```

> Open your browser to http://localhost:3020!

> ![tsci Server Preview](./docs/example_preview.png)

## More Features!

- [X] Preview PCBs & Schematics in your browser
- [X] Use normal Typescript/React tooling
- [X] Export Gerbers, Pick'n'Place and BOM for manufacturing
- [X] Add [registry packages](https://tscircuit.com/trending) with `tsci add`
- [X] Publish subpackages to the registry with `tsci publish`
- [X] Simplified, extensible auto-routing for schematics and PCBs
- [X] Generate footprints from text [using AI](https://text-to-footprint.tscircuit.com)

---

## FAQ

### Is tscircuit free?

tscircuit is completely free and MIT-licensed open-source

### How does this work?

tscircuit uses the same thing that React Native and [react-three-fiber](https://docs.pmnd.rs/react-three-fiber/getting-started/introduction) use to render to mobile or 3d to render PCBs and schematics (it's called [React Fiber](https://github.com/acdlite/react-fiber-architecture)!)

You can render schematics or PCBs in any React project like this:

```tsx
import { Schematic } from "@tscircuit/schematic-viewer"

export const MyApp = () => (
  <div>Regular web react here!</div>
  <Schematic>
   <resistor name="R1" resistance="10k" />
  </Schematic>
)
```

tscircuit has a bunch of extra tools and exports in the command line, so it's a bit easier to use `tsci dev` to develop circuits (you can always publish and import them later)

### Is this ready for production?

No! Although I've [ordered a fully assembled circuit](https://x.com/seveibar/status/1780803190101020720) [(source code)](https://github.com/tscircuit/blinking-led-circuit/blob/main/lib/MyCircuit.tsx), this project is still very very early!

### How does the registry work?

The tscircuit registry fully implements the npm registry. When you run `tsci init` a `.npmrc` file is created in your project so that any `npm add` or `npm install` for a package starting with `@tsci/*`
will go to the tscircuit registry instead of the npm registry.

```
# Example .npmrc
# This line says "any package from the org @tsci should use the tscircuit registry server
@tsci:registry=https://registry-api.tscircuit.com/npm
```

### Can I use a different registry?

Yes! You can use the same trick and modify the `.npmrc` file for your project. You can run your own npm registry with [verdaccio](https://verdaccio.org/) 

### Why are some things upside down?

If you see something upside down, it's because mid-April the Y Axis was flipped so that "up" would mean the Y value would increase for both schematics and PCBs. In web development, the
Y axis is negative as you go up, but [this probably isn't a good choice an engineering tool](https://x.com/seveibar/status/1780992701800034726) so now the Y Axis is positive and some
things are upside down until they're fixed.

### Can I test this in my browser?

Yes! There is a [playground tool!](https://tscircuit.com/playground)

### Do I have to specify the position of every component?

I'm working on autolayout functionality where you will hopefully only need to
tweak things like the spacing. The goal of anything auto

### Is the auto-routing good?

The auto-routing is very basic. You can adjust the paths by adding `pcb_route_hints`
to a `<trace />`. Over time, we'll get good, fast auto-routing algorithms and also
ways to "bake & cache" a route over a longer time period.

### Can I export into other tools for routing?

This isn't currently possible but a major current objective. If you're interested in writing a module that can convert [tscircuit soup JSON](https://docs.tscircuit.com/api-reference/advanced/soup)
into another editor's format, reach out on our [campfire](https://tscircuit.com/community/join-redirect)!!

### I found a bug or have an idea for a feature, what should I do?

Please [create an issue](https://github.com/tscircuit/tscircuit/issues)!

### How can I follow along?

- [@seveibar](https://x.com/seveibar) is the main author, he tweets about tscircuit and does [development livestreams](https://www.twitch.tv/seveibar)
- [@tscircuit](https://x.com/tscircuit) for major tscircuit releases, features and discussions
- [tscircuit discord](https://discord.gg/6X3PYhtj) and [tscircuit campfire](https://tscircuit.com/community/join-redirect)

### Does this use AI?

No, but AI is pretty good at generating circuits! Try it with copilot!

### What big features are coming?

- [ ] Type-safe traces
- [ ] Autolayout and autorouter improvements
- [ ] Layout and route "baking" for more complex routes/layouts
- [ ] Lots and lots of static analysis
- [ ] SPICE output!
- [ ] Export to other EDA tools
- [ ] Less bugs! A lot less bugs!

---

## Development Sub-Projects / Organization

tscircuit includes a lot of different independently-runnable sub-projects. Here's
a quick guide to navigating all of the sub-projects:

### Core Libraries

| Project                                                                      | Description                                                                                              |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [tscircuit](https://github.com/tscircuit/tscircuit)                          | The main package, packages up everything into a single version                                           |
| [@tscircuit/builder](https://github.com/tscircuit/builder)                   | A typescript-native library for building circuits (no React). Converts typescript into "the soup format" |
| [@tscircuit/cli](https://github.com/tscircuit/cli)                           | The tscircuit command line tool `tsci` and development environment                                       |
| [@tscircuit/schematic-viewer](https://github.com/tscircuit/schematic-viewer) | The Schematic renderer                                                                                   |
| [@tscircuit/pcb-viewer](https://github.com/tscircuit/pcb-viewer)             | The PCB renderer                                                                                         |
| [@tscircuit/react-fiber](https://github.com/tscircuit/react-fiber)           | Bindings from builder to React, React types                                                              |
| [@tscircuit/routing](https://github.com/tscircuit/routing)                   | Routing algorithms for schematic and PCB traces                                                          |
| [@tscircuit/autolayout](https://github.com/tscircuit/autolayout)             | Layout algorithms for schematics                                                                         |
| [@tscircuit/footprinter](https://github.com/tscircuit/footprinter)             | DSL for creating footprints                                                                         |

### Other Links

- [tscircuit.com](https://tscircuit.com) - The official tscircuit website
- [Registry](https://tscircuit.com/trending) - The official tscircuit registry that hosts re-usable tscircuit components
- [discord](https://tscircuit.com/community/join-redirect)
- [@seveibar](https://x.com/seveibar) - Twitter for author of tscircuit with dev sessions and upcoming features

Commit message:

add link to kicad viewer

README.md, after:

# ⏣ tscircuit - React for Circuits

[Docs](https://docs.tscircuit.com) &middot; [Website](https://tscircuit.com) &middot; [Twitter](https://x.com/tscircuit) &middot; [discord](https://tscircuit.com/community/join-redirect) &middot; [Quickstart](https://docs.tscircuit.com/quickstart) &middot; [Online Playground](https://tscircuit.com/playground)

[![NPM Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/tscircuit)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/tscircuit) [![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/tscircuit/tscircuit)](https://github.com/tscircuit/tscircuit)

Make electronics using Typescript, React and [AI](https://text-to-footprint.tscircuit.com).

```
npm install -g tscircuit
```

`tscircuit` is a library complemented by a registry, package manager, command line tool and AI electronic design suite that makes it easy to create, share, export and manufacture electronic circuits. It uses
[React Fiber](https://docs.pmnd.rs/react-three-fiber/getting-started/introduction) to render circuits into web pages.

```tsx
const Circuit = () => (
  <board width="50mm" height="50mm" center_x={0} center_y={0}>
    <MySubcomponent name="U1" center={[0, 0]} footprint="sot236" />
    <resistor
      x={2}
      y={-0.5}
      name="R1"
      resistance="10ohm"
      footprint="0805"
      pcb_x="4mm"
      pcb_y="-1mm"
    />
    <ground x={3} y={1} name="GND" />
    <trace path={[".U1 > .D0", ".R1 > .left"]} />
    <trace path={[".R1 > .right", ".GND > .gnd"]} />
  </board>
)
```

![Example Circuit Rendering](./docs/example_render.png)

https://github.com/tscircuit/tscircuit/assets/1910070/63610730-41e6-4a00-9748-e4c3691e5ca9

## Getting Started

You can do everything you need to do with `tscircuit` using the [`tsci`](https://github.com/tscircuit/cli) command line tool.

```bash
npm install -g tscircuit

tsci dev
```

> Open your browser to http://localhost:3020!

> ![tsci Server Preview](./docs/example_preview.png)

## More Features!

- [x] Preview PCBs & Schematics in your browser
- [x] Use normal Typescript/React tooling
- [x] Export Gerbers, Pick'n'Place and BOM for manufacturing
- [x] Add [registry packages](https://tscircuit.com/trending) with `tsci add`
- [x] Publish subpackages to the registry with `tsci publish`
- [x] Simplified, extensible auto-routing for schematics and PCBs
- [x] Generate footprints from text [using AI](https://text-to-footprint.tscircuit.com)

---

## FAQ

### Is tscircuit free?

tscircuit is completely free and MIT-licensed open-source

### How does this work?

tscircuit uses the same thing that React Native and [react-three-fiber](https://docs.pmnd.rs/react-three-fiber/getting-started/introduction) use to render to mobile or 3d to render PCBs and schematics (it's called [React Fiber](https://github.com/acdlite/react-fiber-architecture)!)

You can render schematics or PCBs in any React project like this:

```tsx
import { Schematic } from "@tscircuit/schematic-viewer"

export const MyApp = () => (
  <div>Regular web react here!</div>
  <Schematic>
   <resistor name="R1" resistance="10k" />
  </Schematic>
)
```

tscircuit has a bunch of extra tools and exports in the command line, so it's a bit easier to use `tsci dev` to develop circuits (you can always publish and import them later)

### Is this ready for production?

No! Although I've [ordered a fully assembled circuit](https://x.com/seveibar/status/1780803190101020720) [(source code)](https://github.com/tscircuit/blinking-led-circuit/blob/main/lib/MyCircuit.tsx), this project is still very very early!

### How does the registry work?

The tscircuit registry fully implements the npm registry. When you run `tsci init` a `.npmrc` file is created in your project so that any `npm add` or `npm install` for a package starting with `@tsci/*`
will go to the tscircuit registry instead of the npm registry.

```
# Example .npmrc
# This line says "any package from the org @tsci should use the tscircuit registry server
@tsci:registry=https://registry-api.tscircuit.com/npm
```

### Can I use a different registry?

Yes! You can use the same trick and modify the `.npmrc` file for your project. You can run your own npm registry with [verdaccio](https://verdaccio.org/)

### Why are some things upside down?

If you see something upside down, it's because mid-April the Y Axis was flipped so that "up" would mean the Y value would increase for both schematics and PCBs. In web development, the
Y axis is negative as you go up, but [this probably isn't a good choice an engineering tool](https://x.com/seveibar/status/1780992701800034726) so now the Y Axis is positive and some
things are upside down until they're fixed.

### Can I test this in my browser?

Yes! There is a [playground tool!](https://tscircuit.com/playground)

### Do I have to specify the position of every component?

I'm working on autolayout functionality where you will hopefully only need to
tweak things like the spacing. The goal of anything auto

### Is the auto-routing good?

The auto-routing is very basic. You can adjust the paths by adding `pcb_route_hints`
to a `<trace />`. Over time, we'll get good, fast auto-routing algorithms and also
ways to "bake & cache" a route over a longer time period.

### Can I export into other tools for routing?

This isn't currently possible but a major current objective. If you're interested in writing a module that can convert [tscircuit soup JSON](https://docs.tscircuit.com/api-reference/advanced/soup)
into another editor's format, reach out on our [campfire](https://tscircuit.com/community/join-redirect)!!

### I found a bug or have an idea for a feature, what should I do?

Please [create an issue](https://github.com/tscircuit/tscircuit/issues)!

### How can I follow along?

- [@seveibar](https://x.com/seveibar) is the main author, he tweets about tscircuit and does [development livestreams](https://www.twitch.tv/seveibar)
- [@tscircuit](https://x.com/tscircuit) for major tscircuit releases, features and discussions
- [tscircuit discord](https://discord.gg/6X3PYhtj) and [tscircuit campfire](https://tscircuit.com/community/join-redirect)

### Does this use AI?

No, but AI is pretty good at generating circuits! Try it with copilot!

### What big features are coming?

- [ ] Type-safe traces
- [ ] Autolayout and autorouter improvements
- [ ] Layout and route "baking" for more complex routes/layouts
- [ ] Lots and lots of static analysis
- [ ] SPICE output!
- [ ] Export to other EDA tools
- [ ] Less bugs! A lot less bugs!

---

## Development Sub-Projects / Organization

tscircuit includes a lot of different independently-runnable sub-projects. Here's
a quick guide to navigating all of the sub-projects:

### Core Libraries

| Project                                                                      | Description                                                                                              |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [tscircuit](https://github.com/tscircuit/tscircuit)                          | The main package, packages up everything into a single version                                           |
| [@tscircuit/builder](https://github.com/tscircuit/builder)                   | A typescript-native library for building circuits (no React). Converts typescript into "the soup format" |
| [@tscircuit/cli](https://github.com/tscircuit/cli)                           | The tscircuit command line tool `tsci` and development environment                                       |
| [@tscircuit/schematic-viewer](https://github.com/tscircuit/schematic-viewer) | The Schematic renderer                                                                                   |
| [@tscircuit/pcb-viewer](https://github.com/tscircuit/pcb-viewer)             | The PCB renderer                                                                                         |
| [@tscircuit/react-fiber](https://github.com/tscircuit/react-fiber)           | Bindings from builder to React, React types                                                              |
| [@tscircuit/routing](https://github.com/tscircuit/routing)                   | Routing algorithms for schematic and PCB traces                                                          |
| [@tscircuit/autolayout](https://github.com/tscircuit/autolayout)             | Layout algorithms for schematics                                                                         |
| [@tscircuit/footprinter](https://github.com/tscircuit/footprinter)           | DSL for creating footprints                                                                              |
| [@tscircuit/kicad-viewer](https://github.com/tscircuit/kicad-viewer)         | View the KiCad official footprints online                                                                |

### Other Links

- [tscircuit.com](https://tscircuit.com) - The official tscircuit website
- [Registry](https://tscircuit.com/trending) - The official tscircuit registry that hosts re-usable tscircuit components
- [discord](https://tscircuit.com/community/join-redirect)
- [@seveibar](https://x.com/seveibar) - Twitter for author of tscircuit with dev sessions and upcoming features
